Damn it.
If we'd won yesterday, we'd be playing right now.
If Karasuno can beat Shiratorizawa,
we'll at least look a little cool.
No, we won't.
We would've won if their number ten wasn't around.
Nah, it was the setter.
That guy is ridiculous.
I think it was the captain.
Although number ten was the most amusing.
The captain, huh?
Well, you've got a point.
Sort of like the foundation that no one really notices?
Leap and fly! High!
Flecked with blood, sweat, and tears
Those glistening wings can let you leave it all behind
So just fly
H
a
i
S
e
k
y
c
u
o
n
u
d
!
S
e
!
a
s
o
n
Fly high
Haikyuu
Second Season
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
!!
Into the distant future
H
a
i
k
y
u
H
a
i
k
y
u
S
e
c
o
n
d
S
e
a
s
o
n
S
e
c
o
n
d
S
e
a
s
o
n
!
The bruise-covered fledgling glares up at the sky
As the ones who've just found their wings laugh derisively
They just want to see the ends of the ocean
Empty your mind
Let the headwinds guide your approach
And with a hop, step, and a jump
Leap and fly! High!
Let your wings, glistening with blood, sweat, and tears
Take you to wherever you need to go
Unleash your unrefined impulses
Uncover your instincts and bare your uncut fangs
It may take an arduous path
But be torn down it endlessly to achieve your dream
So just fly
Fly high
Into the distant future
Sawamura!
Daichi!
Episode Seventeen:
The Fight of the Spineless
What's going on?
What's wrong?
He collapsed!
What's going on?
They collided.
Right after they hit the ball back over the net,
number five, the guy with the shaved head, and the captain crashed into each other.
It looked like he hit his head pretty hard.
Seriously?
Ow...
Where were you hit?!
M-My face?
Sawamura, where are you right now?
The Sendai City Gymnasium.
Who are we playing right now?
W-Waku South.
I'm fine!
Still, since you hit your head, please go to the infirmary.
Right.
Go have them confirm that you really are fine.
That's the quickest way for you to return to the match.
Yes, sir.
Blood...
Did you cut your lip?
He doesn't seem to be dizzy.
A tooth?!
That might be it for their captain in this match.
Though that's up to the coach.
It'd be scary if he had a concussion.
Can I leave the rest to you, sir?
D-Daichi...
I'm sor—
Sorry, Tanaka.
I saw you coming in to cover,
but my body just dived in on instinct.
But look.
Karasuno            Waku South
Because you got that ball over, we're now in the 20s.
Shaved Head from Karasuno is pretty
damn strong mentally during a match,
but that's only when he's backed into a corner.
I wonder how he'll hold up after knocking out their central pillar.
If they lose this match, it'll probably be the captain's last.
Sorry, Asahi. I'll be right back.
Hold down the fort until then.
I'm counting on you.
You didn't even need to ask.
Leave it to us.
He's walking on his own, so I think he'll be fine.
The problem is this match.
I wonder who'll step up and replace their central pillar.
The backup setter, maybe?
They'd need to have done a lot of practice with the spikers
or be skilled enough in both offense
and defense to take on a wing spiker.
It's a large hole to fill.
I don't know if Karasuno has a
wing spiker that can replace him.
There's no one else!
We're counting on you!
You've got this, Chikara!
He played in the practice match.
What was he like again?
I don't really remember him.
Well, he seemed like a guy who can handle things well.
Karasuno doesn't have a lot of players,
so they might just not have anyone else.
This is the same as a practice match...
Same as a practice match...
Same...
Anyway, go play your heart out.
This isn't the same!
Playing behind him and replacing him are completely different!
Oh, so it is you, Ennoshita.
Is it okay if we start with a fast attack?
Oh... sure.
Chikara!
Their number one tends to hit toward the sides,
so keep that in mind!
R-Right.
You've got this, Ennoshita!
It's understandable that Ennoshita feels uneasy.
Let's do this!
But if anyone has to replace Daichi,
everyone on our team thinks it should be you.
You can do it!
Sorry, Ennoshita, but we're counting on you.
Why are you apologizing?
For crashing into Daichi?
It's not surprising one of you got hurt after that collision.
In the end, Daichi may've been subbed out because he collided with you,
but if there's anything we're thinking about right now...
Asahi, if you would.
It's how we're glad you weren't hurt!
Right, right. Come on, now.
Our offense is already weakened just by having Daichi out.
You guys being depressed is only going to make things worse!
Wow, this is unexpected.
Ennoshita seems like the timid type at first glance.
No way!
Based on how they act when they're over at our place, Chikara's definitely the don of the second-years.
He's the best wing spiker for managing the out-of-control second-years who are the core of our offense.
And lately, he's been spreading his
influence over to the rascal first-years.
True...
Give us a good one, Ennoshita!
Nice receive!
Center!
All right!
All right...
Let's turn this match around!
Damn!
I'm sorry!
All right!
I'll guard a little wider.
Sorry to trouble you.
Don't sweat it!
I don't compare to Daichi as far as technique is concerned,
We'll get the next one!
but now that I'm standing here,
there's no point in running away by making excuses.
Give us another good serve, Takeru!
Not to mention...
I already know that I'll just make things worse later if I run away now.
Bring it on!
Not bad for a substitute captain!
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
H
a
S
e
i
c
k
y
o
n
u
d
S
e
!
a
s
o
n
The third-years will continue to lead
the team until the spring tournament,
but you second-years need to at least start
thinking about who's going to be the next captain.
That's what Mr. Ukai said.
The next one, huh?
I think Chikara should do it.
Why?!
Just 'cause.
Wait, you just ate that popsicle in two bites.
According to the rules, a libero can't be the captain, right?
Yep!
I think Tanaka's qualified too,
but looking at our first-year starters...
The simpletons.
The smartass.
Yeah. I think we need someone really calm at the top.
I agree that Ennoshita should be captain,
but I'm somehow not satisfied with the reason why.
Actually, you guys need to include yourselves in the running!
No way in hell.
Yeah, not happening.
C'mon, guys.
But I ran away.
There's no way I could lead the team.
During summer vacation last year...
Not yet! Not until you can dig this out!
Come on! Don't get exhausted after that!
We lost two first-years the next day.
At this rate, we're never gonna finish!
And a few days after that, I ditched practice for the first time since starting volleyball in junior high.
I faked being sick.
I felt guilty of course, but at least I wouldn't
have to get yelled at during strenuous practice.
Air conditioning is wonderful!
I skipped the next day, and then the day after that.
I don't have to run in the heat.
I don't have to get yelled at.
Maybe I'm actually some huge masochist.
S-Sorry for ditching practice!
Please let me join you!
Ennoshita, I'm glad that you came ba—
Then don't show up in your school uniform!
Captain...
I-I'm sorry! I'll change right away!
Dealing with people is hard,
but you can't be nice all the time, either.
Right.
Hey! If you're going to practice, get changed first!
All right, let's get started.
Yessir!
Get running!
Y-Yessir!
Karasuno... Fight!
Yeah!
Fight!
There were five first-years that boycotted practice at the time.
Two of them quit the team and seem much more lively now.
Which is better is probably different for everyone.
It was harder for me when I wasn't playing volleyball, so I went back.
But the inferiority complex from running away will probably never disappear.
That might be why it should be you.
All that matters is that you're back here with us now.
Hey, I won!
I'm gonna go redeem it!
Not everybody who joins a sports team is going to be the reckless type.
I don't know much about those
who are a different type than me,
but I think you do.
Well, this is all in the future, so whatever.
Yeah.
All right!
In any case, there's no way someone spineless can do it.
Bring it on!
It's up!
Nice job, Ennoshita!
Keep it going!
Send it my way!
Azumane!
All right!
Nice spike!
Great job getting the ball up, Chikara!
R-Right.
Even if I'm spineless, and even if I'm no match for Daichi, I'm still gonna fight!
That's why I came back!
Karasuno                       Waku South
Give us a good serve, Asahi!
Sorry!
All right!
It's okay. Let's get the next one!
Nice serve!
Nice job, Asahi!
Do it again!
Like hell we're letting you score again!
I'm gonna get this!
Nice, Hanayan!
Waku South's pretty calm.
Nice!
Don't worry about it!
You can do it!
Yamaguchi.
Yes?
Nice receive!
Shimizu's calling for you.
All right!
Nice spike, Tanaka!
Karasuno                                Waku South
Huh?
When Tsukishima's up to serve next,
we'll have Yamaguchi come in as a pinch server.
In this situation, the last thing I want is them coming back and taking this set.
We're gonna make a run for it.
All right.
You're way too stiff.
This isn't like the last time where the opponent was in the lead.
The team's only thinking about how
great it'd be if we managed to score.
Thanks, Tsukki!
Was that his attempt at encouragement?
Tsukishima has such a smartass way of saying things.
Do you feel like throwing up, Yamaguchi?
Huh?
I'm good so far.
Then you'll be fine.
Because I feel like I will.
A-Are you all right?
I can barely stand.
Well done, Ennoshita.
What?!
He knows how to get people to
calm down when they're nervous.
I feel sick...
It'll be okay. It'll be okay.
Just like Tsukki said, we're in the lead.
And I practiced.
Crap! The serve toss was a bit low!
Amazing serve!
It's over the net!
Karasuno                       Waku South
Just one more point!
Give us a good serve, Yamaguchi!
Do it again!
R-Right...
You've got this, Yamaguchi!
I was lucky that made it over.
But if I miss the next one,
the good and the bad will cancel each other out.
So I have to...
It's better to make sure to get it over the net.
Huh? I guess he's not doing a jump serve this time.
Got it!
Nice!
Is it some kind of tactic to stop using the jump float serve?
I think I remember that guy missing a serve when
he was the pinch server during the Seijou match too.
Not to mention, that last serve nearly didn't make it.
I think he's just scared.
Crap! An attack is coming!
Move, legs!
It's falling! Up front, up front!
It's up!
Someone get it!
Nice, Chikara!
Azumane!
Right!
All right!
Karasuno                         Waku South
Asahi, that last back row attack was awesome!
Thanks.
Hey, Mr. Ukai's back.
Doesn't he seem really pissed off?
Yamaguchi!
U-Um...
H-He knows.
Probably better than anyone else.
What?
Was there a problem?
Even if you don't jump,
you can do serves that don't spin and are hard to receive.
And if you jump and hit it from a higher point, the ball will travel faster and with more force.
I see.
I don't think it's bad to be defensive right now.
Waku South                         Karasuno
In the end, Karasuno scored.
But...
the only thing Tadashi can use to fight alongside his team
is his serve.
If he runs away from that, he has nothing left.
What the hell do you need besides your own pride?!
Hey, Tsukishima. Don't you have something to say to Yamaguchi?
I acted all tough with Tsukki,
but I'm just a spineless coward.
Why don't you go say something?
I'm so fucking lame.
Mr. Ukai, how's Daichi?
He's fine.
He doesn't appear to have a concussion.
But his mouth is bleeding pretty badly,
and he's in a lot of pain.
I'm having him rest for a while, just in case.
I know!
We're gonna win and ready the next stage for Sawamura.
There's nothing else to think about right now!
Yes, sir!
All right, let's go!
Karasuno, fight!
Yeah!
Nice spike, Ushijima!
Unstoppable Force
Ushijima!
Shiratorizawa                           Hakusuikan
Shiratorizawa's got just five more points to go.
Time to head over.
Yep.
Also, it doesn't seem like the match between Karasuno and Waku South is going to end anytime soon.
I wonder how Karasuno's doing without their captain.
Just because a super receive is flashy, that doesn't mean it's good.
If they're unable to dig out a spike they'd always been able to,
Waku South
Karasuno
that will slowly but surely get to them.
Waku South
Karasuno
I bet...
that's how they're feeling right about now.
When I was just a nobody, something lit up my eyes
I was merely a guy languishing complacently in the dark, happy with what I had
Now I'm torn toward the heavens even on a starless night
Whether our time comes to us or not is a matter for those in another world
That's right, our lungs pumping and our hearts beating is all we have in this new realm
We've always been dancing on an unlit stage, but now beyond that
We're awaiting the rising of a sun that none have yet witnessed
Now that we're deliberating at a crossroads, paths blurring together
We can feel it
Inside this uncharted world which has yet to take on a name
As I'm waiting for the dawn to reach my eyes with a familiar light
I'm reminded of days I won't return to, and seeking proof of newfound existence
We brace ourselves
Good job, Ennoshita. You'd probably make a good captain.
I wonder who'd be a good vice captain.
Definitely not Tanaka or Noya.
Why?
Because they both act like children.
Did you really just say that?!
Episode Eighteen:
The Losers
Next time on Haikyuu!!:
"The Losers."